Get Started with Data Cloud and AI
Learning Objectives
In this project, you’ll:

Sign up for a Data Cloud and Einstein AI–enabled playground.
Present data stream data to users with a Data Cloud Related List.
Extend Copilot with a flow-based action.
Create a prompt template to use in sales emails.
Welcome to Coral Cloud Resorts
Everyone needs a vacation from time to time. So for your next trip, why not consider Coral Cloud Resorts? Coral Cloud Resorts 
are known for offering a wide variety of amazing destination activities and doing everything to ensure guests have a fantastic 
stay. This commitment to excellent service has brought Data Cloud and Einstein 1 to Coral Cloud’s attention. Becca Cloudier, 
the Salesforce admin, just earned the Salesforce Data Cloud: Quick Look badge, where she learned how Data Cloud can unify data 
from across many sources. Coincidentally, she’s also recently earned the Einstein Copilot Basics and Prompt Builder Basics badges,
discovering just how powerful generative AI can be. Now it’s obvious to Becca: Data Cloud and Einstein 1 go together like sunshine 
and beaches!

Becca starts making plans for her first project that combines Data Cloud with generative AI: Streamline the check-in process while 
still keeping it a personalized experience. Resort staff can give more personal attention to their customers, who in turn spend 
less time standing at a check-in desk.

Einstein conversation pane with a request and response.

Once the project is complete, you can witness how a few pieces of data from an external source can weave their way through 
Salesforce and generative AI functionality, ending in an email that Einstein drafts in a matter of seconds. So pack your bags,
because we’re about to take a trip to Coral Cloud Resorts for exciting adventures in Data Cloud and Einstein generative AI!

Sign Up for a Custom Playground with Data Cloud and Einstein AI
To complete this project, you need a custom playground that contains Data Cloud, Einstein AI, and our sample data. If you haven’t
already clicked the Create Playground button at the top of this page, do that now, and follow the steps to create a custom playground
and connect it to Trailhead.

Note
This Custom Playground is designed to work with the challenges in this badge, and may not work for other badges. Always check that
you’re using the Trailhead Playground or special Developer Edition org that we recommend.

Also note that your developer org has a custom permission set that doesn't have access to Data Cloud Setup. It’s intended to be used
only for specified Trailhead challenges.

Great, you’re now ready to get started on Becca’s plan to unlock the power of data and AI combined. Click Verify step to earn 100 points
in the Challenge section to go to the next step in the project.

